---
title: Product usage overview
description: View insights and reports on how your organization uses Customer Journey Analytics.
exl-id: 3806ca7c-ee90-4222-9ffd-2e791c4550e5
---
# Product usage overview

{{release-limited-testing}}

Product usage provides your organization with the ability to view analytics data on how your organization uses Customer Journey Analytics. It is available for all organizations that use Customer Journey Analytics. Once enabled, the following Adobe Experience Platform components are automatically created and hooked up for you. These components are all system-owned, read-only, and cannot be edited.

* A schema in Adobe Experience Platform
* A dataset in Adobe Experience Platform
* A connection in Customer Journey Analytics
* A data view in Customer Journey Analytics

All data collection and setup is automatically configured for you once enabled. Any time a user makes an action in Analysis Workspace, that action is tracked and available for reporting.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>
>This feature counts toward your contractual row limits in Adobe Experience Platform. Make sure that your organization can accommodate the data generated by this feature before enabling it.

## Enable Product usage

**[!UICONTROL Customer Journey Analytics]** > **[!UICONTROL Tools]** > **[!UICONTROL Product Usage]**

Navigating to this section of the interface in Customer Journey Analytics takes you to [Data settings](data-settings.md) where you can enable this feature.

## Available dimensions

When you enable Product usage, the following dimensions are available. If you want to change any dimension settings, create a copy of the system-owned data view and use the copied data view in Analysis Workspace.

* **[!UICONTROL Action Name]**: The type of action that the user took. You can use this dimension as any desired metric by creating a copy in data view settings. Dimension items include:
  * Add attribution
  * Add component
  * Add panel
  * Add visualization
  * Create new guided analysis
  * Create new project
  * Curate components
  * Download CSV
  * Download PDF
  * Load guided analysis
  * Load project
  * New scorecard loaded
  * Open data dictionary
  * Open intelligent captions
  * Project share
  * Run Experimentation panel
  * Save project
  * Scorecard saved
  * Send file
  * Send file on schedule
  * Share project with anyone
  * Share project with Workspace users
* **[!UICONTROL Attribution Model Used]**: The type of attribution model that the component uses. Dimension items include:
  * Last touch
  * First touch
  * Linear
  * Participation
  * Same touch
  * U shaped
  * J curve
  * Inverse J
  * Time decay
  * Custom
  * Algorithmic
* **[!UICONTROL Component Name]**: The name of the component that was added, removed, or modified.
* **[!UICONTROL Component Type]**: The type of component that was added, removed, or modified. Dimension items include:
  * Dimension
  * Metric
  * Filter
  * Calculated metric
  * Date range
  * Annotation
  * Alert
* **[!UICONTROL Login User]**: The user that took the action.
* **[!UICONTROL Panel Used]**: The panel where the component was added, removed, or modified. Dimension items include:
  * Attribution
  * Blank panel
  * Experimentation
  * Freeform
  * Next or previous item
  * Quick insights
  * Trends
  * Funnel
  * User growth
  * Impact
  * User stream
  * Retention
  * Feature matrix
* **[!UICONTROL Project Name]**: The friendly name of the project.
* **[!UICONTROL Project Type]**: The project type. Dimension items include:
  * `workspace-projects`
  * `guided-analysis`
  * `mobile-scorecard-builder`
* **[!UICONTROL User ID]**: The user ID that triggered the event.
* **[!UICONTROL Visualization Used]**: The visualization that was added, removed, or modified. Dimension items include:
  * Freeform table
  * Cohort table
  * Fallout
  * Flow
  * Journey Canvas reportlet
  * Area
  * Area stacked
  * Bar
  * Bar stacked
  * Bullet
  * Combo
  * Donut
  * Histogram
  * Horizontal bar
  * Horizontal bar stacked
  * Key metric summary
  * Line
  * Map
  * Scatter
  * Section header
  * Summary change
  * Summary number
  * Text
  * Treemap
  * Venn

Product usage does not track individual project components when a project is merely opened or viewed. The user action of opening a project is tracked, however.
