---
description: How to create data stories using Workspace mobile scorecards
title: Create a data story
feature: Analytics Dashboards
role: User, Admin
exl-id: 
solution: Customer Journey Analytics
---
# About data stories

A data story is a collection of supporting data points, business context, and related metrics built around a central theme or metric. Data stories simplify complex data sets and provide executives with actionable insights that they can use to generate tangible returns. Data stories provide a snapshot of financial and operational data in real-time. 

For example, if you focus on web traffic, your most important metric may be visits, but you may also be interested in new visitors, unique visitors, and you may want to see data broken down by web page or by what device type the traffic is coming from. Data stories and mobile scorecard projects let you put your most important metrics front and center while telling the whole story behind the metrics with multiple detail slides. 

Watch the video to learn more about using data stories and view examples in Analytics Workspace.

>[[!VIDEO](https://video.tv.adobe.com/v/3416392/?quality=12&learn=on)

## Create a data story {#create-data-story}

When a user taps a tile, then swipes through slides showing detailed views, they can read and interpret the data story. 

<add image of data stories view - point out the detail views icons showing the tile and slides>

To create data stories and mobile scorecard projects viewable in the Analytics Dashboards app:

1.  Start with a mobile scorecard project. 
1.  Tap a tile that you want to create a story from. 
1.  Add slides to build your data story. Your first slide is generated by default.
To add new slides, either hover over or click on a slide, then select from the available options: 
•	Tap the + sign to create a new slide. 
•	Tap the duplicate icon to duplicate the existing slide.
1. If you create a blank slide, drag and drop components from the left rail, or choose a layout to automatically populate the slide with the data from the tile. 

To delete a slide, tap the trash icon. 

## Customize a data story {#customize-data-story}

Data stories allow you to customize everything so you can share information that you want to share and exclude everything that you don't need. You can customize tiles and individual slides to add filters, show breakdowns, change the layout, and change the visualizations. 

To customize tiles

1.	Tap a tile. The selected tile is outlined in blue, and the right panel shows the Tile properties.
1.	Change the title, chart type, and other tile options.
1.	Drag a component onto the tile.
<insert screen shot showing component on tile>
When you drag and drop a component, onto a tile, the component is applied to all data story slides.

To apply a change only to the title, hold the Shift key to apply the change.
<insert screen shot showing +Tile & slides (hold shift for tile only)>

Note: Slides inherit components from the tile, but tiles don’t inherit components from slides.

To customize individual slides

You can change the visualization for individual slides. For example, you can change a horizontal bar to a doughnut graph for a specific slide. You can also change the layout. 

1.	Select a slide. The selected slide is outlined in blue, and the right panel shows the slide properties.
1.	Change the title, chart type, and other slide options. For example, add some text to explain the slide and then format the text.
<insert image showing editing options>
1.	Change the slide layout. For example, use a layout that has both text and a table to explain your story.
1.	Tap the Close button or anywhere else on the canvas to close the editing window.

## Preview a data story {#preview-data-story}

After you create a data story, use the Preview button to see how it looks for your end user.

The preview window lets you view and interact with a data story as if you were an app user. 

1.	Tap the Preview button.
1.	View the tile and then swipe through the slides to read the data story.

## Navigate between tiles and slides {#navigate-tiles-slides}

The navigation bar displays icons that represent what's on each slide. The navigation bar makes it easy to navigate to a specific slide if you have a lot of slides. 

To move between the tile and slides, tap the navigation bar.
<insert screenshot showing navigation bar>

You can also navigate back and forth by using the arrows on your keyboard or by grabbing a component and holding it to the left or right of your screen to scroll.




